README.md, before:

# Melissa Name Object Windows Java

## Purpose
This code showcases the Melissa Name Object using Java.

Please feel free to copy or embed this code to your own project. Happy coding!

For the latest Melissa Name Object release notes, please visit: https://releasenotes.melissa.com/on-premise-api/name-object/

For further details, please visit: https://docs.melissa.com/on-premise-api/name-object/name-object-quickstart.html

The console will ask the user for:

- Name (First Name + Last Name)

And return 

- Prefix
- First Name
- Middle Name
- Last Name
- Suffix
- Gender
- Salutation
- Result Codes

## Tested Environments
- Windows 10 64-bit Java 19, Powershell 5.1
- Melissa data files for 2024-03

## Required Files and Programs

#### mdName.dll

This is the c++ code of the Melissa Object. This file will be downloaded by Melissa Updater!
 
#### mdNameJavaWrapper.dll

This file needs to be added as a Project Dependency.  This wrapper will need to be in the same directory as the program using it.

#### Data Files
- mdName.cfg
- mdName.dat

## Getting Started
These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

This project is compatible with Java 19.

#### Install Java
Before starting, make sure that Java has been correctly installed on your machine and your environment paths are configured. 

You can download Java here: 
https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/

You can check that your environment is set up correctly by opening a command prompt window and typing the following:
`java --version`

![alt text](/screenshots/java_version.PNG)

If you see the version number then you have installed Java and set up your environment paths correctly!


#### Set up Powershell settings
If running Powershell for the first time, you will need to run this command in the Powershell console: `Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned`.
The console will then prompt you with the following warning shown in the image below. 
 - Enter `'A'`. 
 	- If successful, the console will not output any messages. (You may need to run Powershell as administrator to enforce this setting).
	
 ![alt text](/screenshots/powershell_executionpolicy.png)

----------------------------------------

#### Download this project
```
$ git clone https://github.com/MelissaData/NameObject-Java
$ cd NameObject-Java
```

#### Set up Melissa Updater 
Melissa Updater is a CLI application allowing the user to update their Melissa applications/data. 

- Download Melissa Updater here: <https://releases.melissadata.net/Download/Library/WINDOWS/NET/ANY/latest/MelissaUpdater.exe>
- Create a folder within the cloned repo called `MelissaUpdater`.
- Put `MelissaUpdater.exe` in `MelissaUpdater` folder you just created.

----------------------------------------

#### Different ways to get data file(s)
1.  Using Melissa Updater
	- It will handle all of the data download/path and dll(s) for you. 
2.  If you already have the latest DQS release zip, you can find the data file(s) and dll(s) in there
    - Use the location of where you copied/installed the data and update the "$DataPath" variable in the powershell script.
    - Comment out this line "DownloadDataFiles -license $License" in the powershell script.
    - This will prevent you from having to redownload all the files.
	
## Run Powershell Script
Parameters:
- -name: a test name
 	
  This is convenient when you want to get results for a specific name in one run instead of testing multiple names in interactive mode.

- -license (optional): a license string to test the Name Object
- -quiet (optional): add to the command if you do not want to get any console output from the Melissa Updater

When you have modified the script to match your data location, let's run the script. There are two modes:
- Interactive 

	The script will prompt the user for a name, then use the provided number to test Name Object.  For example:
	```
	$ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1
	```
    For quiet mode:
    ```
    $ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1 -quiet
    ```
- Command Line 

	You can pass a name in ```-name``` parameter and a license string in ```-license``` parameter to test Name Object. For example:
	```
    $ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1 -name "Ray Melissa" 
    $ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1 -name "Ray Melissa" -license "<your_license_string>"
    ```
	For quiet mode:
    ```
    $ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1 -name "Ray Melissa" -quiet
    $ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1 -name "Ray Melissa" -license "<your_license_string>" -quiet
    ```
This is the expected output from a successful setup for interactive mode:

![alt text](/screenshots/output.png)

    
## Troubleshooting
Troubleshooting for errors found while running your program.

### Errors:
| Error      | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| ErrorRequiredFileNotFound      | Program is missing a required file. Please check your Data folder and refer to the list of required files above. If you are unable to obtain all required files through the Melissa Updater, please contact technical support below. |
| ErrorDatabaseExpired   | .db file(s) are expired. Please make sure you are downloading and using the latest release version. (If using the Melissa Updater, check powershell script for '$RELEASE_VERSION = {version}'  and change the release version if you are using an out of date release).     |
| ErrorFoundOldFile   | File(s) are out of date. Please make sure you are downloading and using the latest release version. (If using the Melissa Updater, check powershell script for '$RELEASE_VERSION = {version}'  and change the release version if you are using an out of date release).    |
| ErrorLicenseExpired   | Expired license string. Please contact technical support below. |


## Contact Us
For free technical support, please call us at 800-MELISSA ext. 4
(800-635-4772 ext. 4) or email us at tech@Melissa.com.

To purchase this product, contact Melissa sales department at
800-MELISSA ext. 3 (800-635-4772 ext. 3).

Commit message:

Tested successfully using Melissa data files for 2024.04

README.md, after:

# Melissa Name Object Windows Java

## Purpose
This code showcases the Melissa Name Object using Java.

Please feel free to copy or embed this code to your own project. Happy coding!

For the latest Melissa Name Object release notes, please visit: https://releasenotes.melissa.com/on-premise-api/name-object/

For further details, please visit: https://docs.melissa.com/on-premise-api/name-object/name-object-quickstart.html

The console will ask the user for:

- Name (First Name + Last Name)

And return 

- Prefix
- First Name
- Middle Name
- Last Name
- Suffix
- Gender
- Salutation
- Result Codes

## Tested Environments
- Windows 10 64-bit Java 19, Powershell 5.1
- Melissa data files for 2024-04

## Required Files and Programs

#### mdName.dll

This is the c++ code of the Melissa Object. This file will be downloaded by Melissa Updater!
 
#### mdNameJavaWrapper.dll

This file needs to be added as a Project Dependency.  This wrapper will need to be in the same directory as the program using it.

#### Data Files
- mdName.cfg
- mdName.dat

## Getting Started
These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

This project is compatible with Java 19.

#### Install Java
Before starting, make sure that Java has been correctly installed on your machine and your environment paths are configured. 

You can download Java here: 
https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/

You can check that your environment is set up correctly by opening a command prompt window and typing the following:
`java --version`

![alt text](/screenshots/java_version.PNG)

If you see the version number then you have installed Java and set up your environment paths correctly!


#### Set up Powershell settings
If running Powershell for the first time, you will need to run this command in the Powershell console: `Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned`.
The console will then prompt you with the following warning shown in the image below. 
 - Enter `'A'`. 
 	- If successful, the console will not output any messages. (You may need to run Powershell as administrator to enforce this setting).
	
 ![alt text](/screenshots/powershell_executionpolicy.png)

----------------------------------------

#### Download this project
```
$ git clone https://github.com/MelissaData/NameObject-Java
$ cd NameObject-Java
```

#### Set up Melissa Updater 
Melissa Updater is a CLI application allowing the user to update their Melissa applications/data. 

- Download Melissa Updater here: <https://releases.melissadata.net/Download/Library/WINDOWS/NET/ANY/latest/MelissaUpdater.exe>
- Create a folder within the cloned repo called `MelissaUpdater`.
- Put `MelissaUpdater.exe` in `MelissaUpdater` folder you just created.

----------------------------------------

#### Different ways to get data file(s)
1.  Using Melissa Updater
	- It will handle all of the data download/path and dll(s) for you. 
2.  If you already have the latest DQS release zip, you can find the data file(s) in there
	- To pass in your own data file path directory, you may either use the '-dataPath' parameter or enter the data file path directly in interactive mode.
	- Comment out this line "DownloadDataFiles -license $License" in the powershell script.
	- This will prevent you from having to redownload all the files.
	
## Run Powershell Script
Parameters:
- -name: a test name
 	
  This is convenient when you want to get results for a specific name in one run instead of testing multiple names in interactive mode.

- -dataPath (optional): a data file path directory to test the Name Object
- -license (optional): a license string to test the Name Object
- -quiet (optional): add to the command if you do not want to get any console output from the Melissa Updater

When you have modified the script to match your data location, let's run the script. There are two modes:
- Interactive 

	The script will prompt the user for a name, then use the provided number to test Name Object.  For example:
	```
	$ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1
	```
    For quiet mode:
    ```
    $ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1 -quiet
    ```
- Command Line 

	You can pass a name in ```-name``` parameter and a license string in ```-license``` parameter to test Name Object. For example:
	```
    $ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1 -name "Ray Melissa" 
    $ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1 -name "Ray Melissa" -license "<your_license_string>"
    ```
	For quiet mode:
    ```
    $ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1 -name "Ray Melissa" -quiet
    $ .\MelissaNameObjectWindowsJava.ps1 -name "Ray Melissa" -license "<your_license_string>" -quiet
    ```
This is the expected output from a successful setup for interactive mode:

![alt text](/screenshots/output.png)

    
## Troubleshooting
Troubleshooting for errors found while running your program.

### Errors:
| Error      | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| ErrorRequiredFileNotFound      | Program is missing a required file. Please check your Data folder and refer to the list of required files above. If you are unable to obtain all required files through the Melissa Updater, please contact technical support below. |
| ErrorLicenseExpired   | Expired license string. Please contact technical support below. |


## Contact Us
For free technical support, please call us at 800-MELISSA ext. 4
(800-635-4772 ext. 4) or email us at tech@Melissa.com.

To purchase this product, contact Melissa sales department at
800-MELISSA ext. 3 (800-635-4772 ext. 3).
